# Project Overview:
Often times, there are different subsidiaries of the retail stores such as Walmart whose locations are variously located at different geographical locations. Most of the time retailers are not successful in understanding the customer’s needs because they will be able to evaluate the market potential at each specific location. The issue intensifies when the sales of products changes as per the session. For example during Christmas period, the sales of some items such as clothing and foot wears increases. However, in the summer, retailers encounter more demand for items such as cotton clothes. As a results suppliers have to balance their profit while supervise their special demand in their inventories. Therefore, the history of purchase of each product in each store helps retailers to forecast the sales of upcoming years if any changes are needed and implement those changes in the retail stores to achieve more profit.

Walmart is one of the largest retailers in the world and it is very important for them to have accurate forecasts for their sales in various departments. Since there can be many factors that can affect the sales for every department, it becomes important for them to identify the key factors that play a part in driving the sales and use them to forecast the sales with some accuracy. For this project, we plan to use the dataset available from https://www.kaggle.com/c/walmart-recruiting-store-sales-forecasting/data/ project that is  available on Kaggle. In this dataset, we have sales data for a couple of stores and departments. In addition, we have store and geography specific information such as store size, temperature, promotional markdowns etc. Using these factors, we plan to use machine learning tools that can forecast the sales and is also computationally efficient and scalable. We plan to use exploratory analyses to identify the key variables for our data which affects sales such as correlation plots, heatmaps, histograms etc. In addition, we may want to analyze the effect of special sales during some seasons on total amount of sales. 
